# BLOCK-CHAIN-BASED-APPROACH-FOR-PRESERVING-PATIENTS-HEALTH-CARE-DATA
Our system design proposes two types of blockchains: a public mainchain and a private sidechain. Depending on the type of node (trusted or untrusted), each of them has a copy of the mainchain, or both blockchains
In our design, entities are represented as nodes. Their role is to store a copy of the blockchain, to process incoming requests and to query the information. Nodes are divided into trusted nodes (approved medical institutions) – their role is to validate transactions and take decision if a new transaction is inserted within the blockchain; and untrusted nodes 
The solution involves the existence of two types of ledgers: a mainchain that is accessible by all the nodes and a sidechain that is accessible only by the trusted nodes. Each type of blockchain is represented as an immutable linked list of blocks and each block is represented by one or more transactions.
However, the public blockchain contains the patient’s temporary ID only, therefore it does not allow tracking history of patient medical treatment. Moreover, in our system design, patients are considered owners of their own medical analysis, have full control over them, even if those are stored on clinics’ datacenters.
After the patient gives her/his consent, information about her/his medical analysis is published in the mainchain, and the analysis is stored in the clinic’s internal database. 
So, within the mainchain there is saved only a reference (pointer) to the patient’s health data, whereas the data is kept securely in dedicated storage infrastructure, protected by adequate security mechanisms, both in terms of access control and anomaly detection .
Taking into account that all the nodes within the network have access to this blockchain, mainchain transactions do not contain personal information such as name, birth date, etc.
